.\" Manpage for ansi-logger.
.\" Contact briankchritensen@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.

.TH man 1 "09 Nov 2017" "3.1.7" "ansi-logger(1) man page"

.SH NAME
ansi-logger \- format JSON entries to colored output.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ansi-logger
[\fB\-s\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fILEVEL\fR | \fB-m\fR \fIMASKS\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fISECONDS\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-mapper\fR \fIFILE_OR_STRING\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.RE
Creating logs with the JSONTransformer of the ansi-logger library,
.RE
is great for production environment for forwarding to log services like logstash.
.RE
This tool can parse the JSON logs and output it via the TextTransformer.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show this help message.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file =\fIFILE\fR
The log file to parse and format [default: -].

.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-loglevel =\fILEVEL\fR
The output levle [default: VERBOSE].

.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-logmasks =\fIMASKS\fR
Comma separated list of log masks to output.

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-split-pipes
Direct error entries to stderr.

.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout =\fISECONDS\fR
The timeout for receiving data [default: 1]. 0 for disable.

.TP
.BR \-\-mapper =\fIFILE_OR_STRING\fR
JavaScript file that exports a single function to map parsed JSON structure to LogEntry
.br
or a comma separated mapper pairs, e.g \fIlevelText\fR=\fBlevel\fR,\fIgroup\fR=\fBkey\fR
.br
.LP
.RS 7

Input:
.br
{"timestamp": "2017-11-08 10:19:01+01:00", "level": "info", "import_key": "references", "glob": "*.xml", "message": "Importing files"}

// mapper.js
.br
module.exports = entry => {
    let levelText;
    switch (entry.level) {
        case 'fatal':
            levelText = 'ERROR';
            break;
        default:
            levelText = typeof entry.level === 'string' ? entry.level.toUpperCase() : 'LOG';
    }

    return {
        group: entry.import_key,
        levelText: levelText,
        message: entry.message,
        timestamp: entry.timestamp,
    };
.br
};

Output:
.br
[2017-11-08 10:19:01+01:00] [references] [INFO] Importing files

.RE

.SH LEVEL OPTIONS
.TP
.IR SILENT
Silent all output.

.TP
.IR ERROR
Output only error entries.

.TP
.IR WARN
Output error and warn entries.

.TP
.IR LOG
Output error, warn and log entries.

.TP
.IR INFO
Output error, warn, log and info entries.

.TP
.IR DEBUG
Output error, warn, log, info and debug entries.

.TP
.IR VERBOSE
Output error, warn, log, info, debug and verbose entries.

.SH MASKS OPTIONS

.TP
.IR ERROR
Output error entries.

.TP
.IR WARN
Output warn entries.

.TP
.IR LOG
Output log entries.

.TP
.IR INFO
Output info entries.

.TP
.IR DEBUG
Output debug entries.

.TP
.IR VERBOSE
Output verbose entries.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Only output log entries from INFO and DEBUG
tail -n200 -f big.log | \fBansi-logger\fR \fB\-m\fR \fIINFO\fR,\fIDEBUG\fR

.TP
Only output log entries from ERROR and WARN
tail -n200 -f big.log | \fBansi-logger\fR \fB\-l\fR \fIWARN\fR

.TP
Redirect file to stdin
\fBansi-logger\fR < ./big.log | less

.TP
Use file switch to read a log file
\fBansi-logger\fR \fB\-f\fR \fI./big.log\fR | less

.TP
Use grep combined with \fBtail -f\fR
\fBtail -f\fR ./big.log | grep \fI--line-buffered\fR 'UserID: 4' | \fBansi-logger\fR -t10 -mWARN,DEBUG

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBansi-logger\fR(3)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/secoya/ansi-logger-js/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Brian K. Christensen <briankchritensen@gmail.com>
